#################################
#	Problem Instances	#
#################################

Light up puzzle instances d1.lup and d2.lup should be used for all comparisons. Straightforward puzzle use! Woo!

#################################
#	Coding Standards	#
#################################

You are free to use any of the following programming languages for your submission :
	- Python 3
	- C++
	- C#
	- Java

NOTE : Sloppy, undocumented, or otherwise unreadable code will be penalized for not following good coding standards (as laid out in the grading rubric on the course website) : https://www.eng.auburn.edu/~drt0015/coding.html

#################################
#	Submission Rules	#
#################################

Included in your repository is a script named ”finalize.sh”, which you will use to indicate which version of your code is the one to be graded. When you are ready to submit your final version, run the command ./finalize.sh or ./finalize.sh -language_flag from your local Git directory, then commit and push your code. Running the finalize script without a language flag will cause the script to run an interactive prompt where you may enter your programming language. Alternatively, you can pass a -j flag when running the finalize script to indicate that you are submitting in Java (i.e. ./finalize.sh -j). The flag -j indicates Java, -cpp indicates C++, -cs indicates C#, and -p indicates Python 3. This script also has an interactive prompt where you will enter your Auburn username so the graders can identify you. The finalize script will create a text file, readyToSubmit.txt, that is populated with information in a known format for grading purposes. You may commit and push as much as you want, but your submission will be confirmed as ”final” if ”readyToSubmit.txt” exists and is populated with the text generated by ”finalize.sh” at 10:00pm on the due date. If you do not plan to submit before the deadline, then you should NOT run the ”finalize.sh” script until your final submission is ready. If you accidentally run ”finalize.sh” before you are ready to submit, do not commit or push your repo and delete ”readyToSubmit.txt.” Once your final submission is ready, run ”finalize.sh”, commit and push your code, and do not make any further changes to it

Late submissions will be penalized 5% for the first 24 hour period and an additional 10% for every 24 hour period thereafter.

#################################
#       Compiling & Running	#
#################################

Your final submission must include the script "run.sh" which should compile and run your code.

Your script should run on a standard linux machines with the following commands :
```
./run.sh problem_filepath
```
```
./run.sh problem_filepath optional_config_filepath
```

#################################
#       Config File Format			#
#################################\
The config file is a json file set up with the following paramaters:

givenSeed: (Optional) An integer that is used as the random seed if present in the config file. If givenSeed is not present in the config file then a random seed will be chosen based on the time in microseconds.\
searchAlgorithm: (Required) A string indicating which algorithm to run. Currently the two choices are: "EA" or "Random Search".\
numOfRuns: (Required) An integer value indicating the number of times the selected algorithm should run.

numOfFitnessEvals: (Required) An integer indicating the number of fitness evaluations per run.\
noChangeForNEvals: (Optional) An integer indicating the number of evaluations in a row to be completed without any increase in the best overall fitness for that run. (Note: Configuration parameter numOfFitnessEvals is still required and used to make sure of eventual termination.)

mutationRate: An integer greater than one indicating the mutation rate. Each gene in each offspring genotype will have a 1 in mutationRate chance of being mutated. For example, if there are 100 genes on one genotype and mutationRate = 50, then approximately 2 genes per offspring genotype will be mutated.

parentTournyK: (Optional) An integer k indicating the size of random tournaments used to select parents. Minimum tournament size is 2. If missing, Fitness Proportional Selection is automatically used to select parents./
survivalTournyK: (Optional) An integer k indicating the size of random tournaments used to select survivors. Minimum tournament size is 2. If missing, Truncation is automatically used to select survivors.

mu: (Required) An integer indicating the size of each run's initial population and the size of each population that survives to the next generation.\
lambda: (Required) An integer indicating the number of offspring created per generation.

parentFitnessProp: (Required) Boolean indicating whether or not to use fitness Proportional when deciding parents.\
parentUniform: (Required) Boolean indicating whether or not to use uniform random when deciding parents.

commaSurvival: (Required) Boolean whether or not to use Comma survival strategy

survivalTruncation: (Required) Boolean indicating whether or not to use truncation when deciding survival.\
survivalUniform: (Required) Boolean indicating whether or not to use uniform random when deciding survival.\
survivalFitnessProp: (Required) Boolean indicating whether or not to use fitness proportional when deciding survival.\

logPath: (Required) A string designating the path of the log file to be created.\
solPath: (Required) A string designating the path of the solution file to be created.\
enforceBlackCellConstraint: (Required) A boolean indicating whether or not to enforce the black cell constraint for the light up puzzle.

The defaults for this can be seen in configs/defaultConfig.json
